---
hide:
    - toc
---

**17th Application and Implication **
===============
For the rest of the course, I will do my compost project as continuous work from the past interventions. My project is based on compost, the original theme/goal was to make people start doing their own compost making in their household to deal with food waste. Through interventions and prototypes, we have come to start working  at a community garden in order to make compost making as a daily activity for local people. We have two approaches to archive this compost making habit project, which is community based and network based.

For this kind of agri or circular related project, there is a lot of community based approach such as Compostaje Comunitario Hortaleza(https://compostajecomunitariohtz.wordpress.com/), ConnectHort, and so many other community gardens. Though there is not much about networking with this topic. The MDEF alumni Pablo Zuloaga was developing Farmacademy for his final project as making distributed programme for teaching agriculture just like fabacademy, but this was only a prototype. Also, IaaC project, Soil Observatory was network based, but this idea was not on distributing knowledge,skills, or open source for normal local citizen. For that I know, making a network on this topic could be meaningful to design.

For a community based approach, we are working with a local community garden in Poblenou, where only local Catalan old people are working, to build a co-design compost bin on the field through several workshops. For the network based approach, we are making an online platform where people can start composting on their own, through using open source knowledge and data that we share on it.
I am developing a network based approach since I cannot really communicate with local people in Spanish. I am developing a prototype of the online platform as a website and trying to make some open source data to put on the platform. I am now trying to develop a parametric compost bin design with grasshopper since I have designed one in fabchallenge. And will develop some interface with Human UI. I want to make it as parameters for changing size and thickness of the material, and later to put the cutting data layout on the material automatically. I am trying to figure out this as my final project. Also I am working on some biomaterial and electric production to put into open source data. For those, I am also trying to make the fabchallenge sensor that we have developed as my next thing to put out as open source. Biomaterial, I am working to make a bag that can be used for carrying food waste from house to a community garden. For this, in order to make it as open source data,I use food waste and will make really easy methods that everyone can do at their household. I think just doing this approach will not cost anything as long as I use the Wix. or something lik ethat for building a website. Though in the future, if this project works out, I want to open this platform officially with its own server and address, so it will cost more. And networking will probably cost when I approach to other organization to join the network, I probably need to spend some money to push them join.
For this platform, I wish people post their own skills,knowledge ,opensource, etc to communicate worldwide. This way, I need to build a system for making people make their account and post. I think this process will not be done for the final project, I hope to develop it afterwards. Also eventhough I set up this platform, it will take so much time for people to use it. I think the duration is the key for this project. How much it will be used is the way that it will be evaluated.But for the final project , I would say the evaluation is done by how I tried build it up. tI also want to answer how to earn money from this project, I guess if it turns out like Precious Plastic, it can be a company where there is distributed groups over the world and I can sell the tool-kit for making compost despite the opensource. 
 
